I think we're getting to the point that
normal porn has gotten really sick that
if you're not approved about
eroticism um some of the things that
you're seeing pushed have to do with the
fact that our brains are now habituated
to all sorts of things that you probably
would never have seen visually unless
you were like gingas
K right because everything's on demand
and so the search for novelty uh I think
is taking in some cases quite a dark
term even for people who are pretty okay
with the idea of pornography and
eroticism as being a an important part
of an adult diet for the Mind where
where it worries me as kids for sure and
I'm maybe even less worried about today
than I am in 15 years when you have VR
that is bordering on Photo realistic and
that's where Photoshop whoever you want
in you know choose your own experience
that's very disturbing but I I'll be
honest I'm more concerned right now
about um people
finding Partners to have children with I
think that this is a an economic
epidemic that we don't feel comfortable
talking about and why AR people
comfortable talking about well because
for example if you have a fair idea that
you're at risk for not having the family
thing work out like it's gotten a little
late in the day and you don't see a lot
of prospects lined up and you've had a
few relationships that haven't ended in
commitment and resources in children and
the economy doesn't seem to want to come
up with a 30-year plan to fit a morgage
and getting some kids through college um
I think that the transition from the
previous world has been pretty brutal
and a lot of people don't want to say
yeah I really want a family and if it
doesn't work out I'm going to be it's
going to be a major hit to my life and
my sense of myself and we need you know
in part I think that a lot of us don't
want to see um young women forced onto
the apps you know which seems like it
turns life into this ever from a dating
perspective yeah like a sing it's just
you know somebody somebody said this is
a singles bar in my pocket and wherever
I'm board I just go to the singles bar
and start swiping and I thought okay and
how do you feel about he said well the
aggregate I feel pretty terrible about
that but I can't stop and so now you've
commodified all of this stuff and I
don't think it's a good deal for young
women at
all um I think that you know young women
have been used to putting men through
their paces and demanding a lot and you
know saying you know jump this high and
seeing who can clear the bar and when
that power is not present and when men
can't win
these competitions and have those
competitions really mean something we
derange as a society because Society is
about continuity and continuity is about
babies so no matter what you want to do
you can take it away from babies I
remember um I was talking to a young
woman who was like 26 or something and
she asked me if I had kids and I said
yes and I said do you have kids and she
like practically spit out her beer like
what and I thought do you think it's
really the crazy question that I would
ask a 26-year-old woman woman if she had
kids um and then you know she thought
about it it just feel felt very remote
and this is the economy that would
bething to people and my belief is is
that if the median individual cannot
count on being able to you know have a
home in a reasonable city that has lots
of jobs so that if one job doesn't work
they can switch and one person can stay
home doesn't have to be the dad doesn't
have to be a mom and a dad can any pair
but you need some somebody with the
freedom to stay home to raise children
while somebody else can be counted upon
to go be the bread winner in an economy
that isn't you know absolutely Razor's
Edge this is nuts and you know was
driven home to me recently my father
turned 85 we were at a party for his
friends and some of their closest
friends lived in in our neighborhood
when I was growing up they were saying
oh yes you know when we moved in all
those years ago so um there were 14 boys
who used to play on the street and now
there are none oh and I said what do you
mean there are none she said what young
families can't afford to live on the
street and I said do you have any
thought in your mind that that was a
catastrophe that happened to your street
and that maybe your generation had some
responsibility this is the silent
generation so before the baby had
something to do to say hey maybe this is
not good for society if Young amilies
she said well these homes are perfect
for families I said but you just told me
that there are no families on your
street so this is an epidemic and this
is deranging us and this is a lot of
what's behind this kind of sense of
Injustice and people trying to
um find groups I think to take care of
because you have got a lot of maternal
instincts that are not grounding in
happy hopeful homes raising kids that's
really interesting what do you think is
um the sort of key driver is this uh
student loans is it um the average
salary isn't going up like and part of
the what drives my question is I know
what I pay so my my previous company I
had at 1 Point 3,000 employees about
1500 full-time and then another 1500
part-time here I have 20 plus employees
full-time and then another I don't know
seven or eight part-time and I know what
I pay them and it's it's a good wage um
it's a hell of a lot more than I was
making at their age that's probably the
easiest way to say it okay
so where is it that just the way that we
are and what we pay is not indicative of
what other companies pay is it um is it
something else is this it's just going
to be um really kind of brutal first of
all uh we we're in an orchard with lots
of lwh hanging scientific fruit where
you could take the scientific fruit and
turn it into technology in short order
we're still making scientific advances
but most of those that are even fairly
profound are not instantly convertible
into technology so there might be lwh
hanging fruit in a new Orchard but we
haven't found the new Orchard so we're
picking fruit that has a very different
characteristic so that's the first part
is that our pipeline got screwed up but
how does that really play out in like
dollars and cents so I'm thinking of
this street right it's the Perfect
Analogy so you have a street the houses
have a price to buy they have a price to
rent so when I think about okay what is
stopping somebody from either buying or
renting so if the prices are too high
prices are too high so then is it that
the prices are artificially too high
because we have a bunch of empty houses
and people who are buying as an
investment and they're just being stupid
so you're fairly familiar with my
theories and acronyms and things so you
you've probably heard about the embedded
growth obligation the ego but what I I
and I get that and that scares me and I
totally buy into it what I don't and for
anybody listening and tell me if I [__]
this up but like basically we have a
system that's entirely predicated on
continued growth and that growth slowed
down starting in the 70s or 80s and
we've done a lot of [__] Shell Games
to make it seem like we're growing the
one that when you give I'm always
freaked the [__] out by is the
essentially Ponzi scheme of Education
where higher education you're teaching
people to be professors um but there's
only going to be so many professors or
the law firm there only going to be so
many partners so it's like every graph
tells the same story so but what I don't
understand is if that's been the same
since the 70s like I didn't even
graduate high school until the mid 90s
and this has nothing ever SE I mean look
there were times I couldn't quite pay my
bills there were times where um you know
I was sharing an apartment with a bunch
of people but it's like it it never felt
like the system had broken in some
impossible way and this isn't me saying
that it is broken this is me just saying
I want to really understand like where
we've gone wrong well so this is what I
say to my friends in San Francisco so
they've got good jobs they're
programmers they're having a blast
they're going to Tulum and you know
traveling to Bali and all these things
and so I say um you're living in a group
house what do you think about buying
your own home and asking that gal you've
been um going out with for a couple
years to get married and like the
conversation just gets really weird uh
well I'm not not so confident that I can
commit to a 30-year mortgage and you
know prices are insane and I'm not
positive that she's the right one for me
and you know all these things or if I
talk to my female friends they have a
set of different
stories um which is like I'm so tired of
little boys who never grow up um is this
a psychological Mala like because that
explanation I can understand we're not
excited about
low variance Futures needed for children
as we see because we don't see things
popping off like this isn't uh Beijing
in 2006 where it's just like the sky's
the limit or well I think people have a
have a pretty strong sense well like I
hired a millennial who I'm very good
friends with and I noticed that he was
like not that committed to
certain kinds of projects He would work
hard but he also had a very clear sense
of you know my obligation ends at this
point I said I know this person I think
they work here okay keep going and um I
said well why why why do we have a
difference in in a sense of work ethic
and he said oh because my generation
watched your generation get screwed by
the Baby Boomers and we're not falling
for it do you buy that yeah that sounds
like [__] to me and and when I say I
am happy to be convinced what I want is
the [__] truth dude because I have no
interest let's get to the truth because
so I have a psychotic work ethic why
because I didn't used to and my entire
life changed when I changed my work
ethic but you f look you're talk sounds
to me like you're talking about founding
companies I've done both I've been an
employee and I've founded companies so
I've played both sides of the fence and
how did how did the employe well look I
I don't want to over index on I mean
because you know there are particular
lawyers in particular law firms who
aren't founding anything who doing just
fine but it's a minority position and
what I believe is is that we are in a
situation in which we are not excited by
the future and the people who are real
stakeholders in the system have in
general been very focused
on making sure that the pyramid is
always supplied so this idea for example
of you have to go to college the debt
has to become non-dischargeable in
bankruptcy we get to load up the
universities with administrators all
that kind of stuff and then of course
the main one which is really bizarre
which is there's the secret weapon and
the secret weapon is immigration and the
great part about immigration as a as a
invidious tool for one generation to
screw another generation with is that if
you call it out there's only one
explanation for why you would fight
having other people added to the bottom
of a pyramid scheme which is you must be
a xenophobe or probably a racist and the
answer is no I'm really just trying to
choke your supply of new virgins to add
to this pyramid scheme so that you can
continue to transfuse
yourself yeah that's interesting um so
let me see if I can uh steal man this
quickly I this is the one time in my
life where I am the one that has a heart
out in 5 minutes I'm so [__]
horrified this is so interesting to me
um so I'll try to do it quickly okay so
um we have a pyramid scheme in that
there are only so many jobs and I'll
even abstract it from being a lawyer
which is very easy to understand there's
only so many people make partner being a
teacher it's easy to understand you can
only create so many other teachers and
obviously we're talking at higher
education um and I'll just say your
normal job I've told my employees this
like look every step you go up you
there's fewer available positions until
you get to the CEO and there's only one
so there's only like you can get
promotion I've never thought of there
being sort of a a money does not strike
me as the finite resource the promotion
strikes me as a finite resource you can
keep making more and more money
depending on the health of the company
and your contributions to it so that's
part of my bias is that when I try to
use just first principles I'm like if
this person is that valuable to me I'm
going to [__] pay them because I have
fear of loss I don't want to lose them
so which is why default to create fear
of loss in your employer if you want
more money but the company has to be
doing well so let me stick to the Ponzi
scheme here so um very interesting take
on immigration so you have people coming
into the system they're willing to work
cheaper than the other people would
otherwise work in the system you got to
be careful about that but keep going
it's interesting I'm trying to represent
your position no no no but what I'm
trying to say is that really the biggest
issue is push out the labor supply
curve you say that another way your wage
is your price yep and I bring people
from foreign countries to make sure you
can't compete because they'll do it for
cheap no that's not that I mean may
maybe the idea is that you're you'll
you're a superior source of Labor who's
you whoever you are you're the
domestic let's assume that you're a
worker inside of the US yep the big play
in some sense of the previous
generations the silent generation and
more importantly the Baby Boomers was
internationalism which they called
globalization and the hidden part of
globalization that wasn't the United
Colors of beniton was the idea if we can
just break our dependence on each other
other and look abroad and talk tell a
beautiful story about what we're going
to do for Africa and Asia then the idea
is is that we can continue to grow our
slice of the pie even though the pie
might not be growing at the same rate
because from my perspective as a silent
generation or baby boomer I'm focused on
a slice not the pie and so there was a
huge amount of value gotten from
tricking people into thinking that
globalization was this beautiful Davos
inspired uh kind of philanthropy that
was going to be a rising tide to raise
all boats
and those Americans who had rights
inside of our system and this goes for
Brits who had British rights and French
had French rights
whatever had a right that was valuable
which is I have asymmetric access to my
labor market and that's how we worked as
a nation so now you start the the
world's greatest PR Campaign which is
patriotism doesn't exist it's only
nationalism and of course nationalism is
really Ultra nationalism which is
jingoism which is a precursor to Nazism
so you start saying you know I kind of
believe in citizenship and patriotism
and now you're telling me that that's
I'm a bad person and now you've got the
Davos crowd talking about financial
inclusion in Africa and Asia and you
notice that they're not really that
interested in Michigan or
Alabama and it's a it's an tell me why
they're not because I felt like I
understood it until told me that I was
getting because the amount of value you
see if I had to purchase your rights
uhhuh and I wrote to what well your
asymmetric access to your labor market I
wrote a paper called migration for the
benefit of all published in the
international in the um International
Journal of Labor I forget what the title
is migration for the benefit of all
which said if you pay people for their
rights like if the Baby Boomers in
silence said look we think we can get
better labor outside and we want to pay
you for the right to shop
elsewhere then the idea is that
everybody would have been better off and
we would have all screamed Kumbaya each
other as we got rich together but
instead what they said is you're a
protectionist and a jingoist and a
xenophobe we loaded them up with as much
negative imagery as we could POS you're
just a bad person and they were doing
that though so they can get cheaper
labor right so they can keep you from
having leverage you keep saying it as
we're we're willing to work below but my
point is is that if this coffee mug MH
cost
$10 and now we have 10,000 coffee
mugs it's not that those coffee mugs are
are willing to be uh bought for Less the
entire cost of coffee mugs plummets it's
just pushing out the supply curve on
labor and wages its price so it behaves
much as supply and demand should now you
can then point out you can make lots of
other arguments like well some of these
people are starting business and people
are not coffee mugs and these are the
most vibrant members of our so you know
you cue Stars and Stripes Forever you
put your right hand over your heart but
the key point was is that all of these
arguments were necessary to keep the
institutional structure going as the
Ponzi scheme ran out and a lot of this
has to do with what I've called fake
growth downsizing offshoring immigration
securitization it's just this mind
numbing
uh parade of different techniques that
these older Generations have used to
keep a system afloat that has been
saying we're exhausted like the law
firms are supposed to fail the
universities are supposed to fail all
sort the newspapers are don't make sense
as a business model and things that
you're creating and that we all might
create would be replacing these things
but instead what we've done is we've
come up with an exotic kind of economic
parabiosis where we're going to
transfuse our fellow Americans and the
younger generations to pay for a group
of people who are just far too expensive
to keep living in the style to which
they have unjustly become accustomed so
I'm sorry about your hard stop but I
think that there's a tremendous amount
to be excited about and enthusiastic
about because in essence getting back to
your original Point you're right about
the Matrix for 50 years we've been in a
constellation of ideas suppressing the
really interesting new ideas and calling
names on anybody who would propose ideas
that would point out the unstable nature
of of our Market democracy and right now
what we're doing is is we're living
through the beginning of a global
lowgrade revolution of a type that we've
never seen before if you like that clip
check out the full powerful episode here
and I'll see you
there